One PalC Based SSO – What & Why 
What is One PalC 
It is a Hub-Based SSO model which a central authentication broker (Hub) that sits between users and all onboarded applications. 

The Hub (One PalC) handles  
User authentication (via Identity Provider like Azure AD)  

Token generation and validation  

Centralized access control  

Applications do not authenticate users directly  

Instead, applications trust the Hub and consume validated identity + roles  

In simple terms 
One login → Hub verifies → All applications trust the Hub 

How It Works (Conceptually) 

User accesses an application  

Application redirects user to One PalC Hub  

One PalC authenticates user (e.g., via Azure AD + MFA)  

One PalC issues an auth token  

User is redirected back to the application  

Application validates token using the OnePalC Public Key 

Application retrieves user id, roles for the application post validation 

Application creates user session based on the details and allow the user in the application 

Why Hub-Based SSO 

1. Centralized Authentication 

No need for each application to implement login  

Authentication logic is standardized and secure  

2. Improved Security 

Policies, and identity controls are handled centrally  

Reduces risk of weak or inconsistent implementations  

Tokens are validated through a trusted system  

3. Better User Experience 

Users log in once and access multiple applications  

Eliminates repeated login prompts  

4. Centralized Access Control 

Role-based access managed via One PalC  

Application owners define roles, but enforcement is consistent  

5. Faster Application Onboarding 

New applications plug into the Hub instead of building auth from scratch  

Reduces development effort significantly  

6. Audit & Governance 

All access and authentication flows are tracked centrally  

Easier compliance and reporting  

What Changes for Application Teams 

Instead of building authentication 

Traditional Approach 

Hub-Based SSO Approach 

Build login UI 

Redirect to Hub 

Store passwords 

No credential storage 

Implement auth logic 

Validate token only 

 

Key Responsibility Split 

One PalC Hub  

Authentication  

Token issuance  

Policy enforcement  

Application  

Token validation  
Session creation  
Role-based authorization  
Redirect URI 
URL where the user will be redirected after authentication. This endpoint must handle and consume the authentication token 
httpsyouapplicationDomainCallbackUrl  

Local Example httplocalhost8005hub-callback.php 
Application Owner 
Single point of ownership for the application 
The owner will receive access approval requests after manager approval 
Application Roles 

Define roles within the application 

Example 
• Role1 
• Role2 
• Role3  
 
Also specify 
- Whether roles are assigned on request, or 
- Assigned by default based on predefined conditions 

 

Step 2 IT Onboarding 

The IT team will  

Configure the application in One PalC  

Validate the provided details  

A confirmation will be shared once onboarding is complete  

IT team will share the API Token and One PalC Public key required for integration  

IT will share the following information  

Field 

Description 

One PalCHub Auth URL 

This is the Hub URL to which your application need to redirect the authentication request 

Public Key 

Public Key of Dev  Prod 

Api Token 

Api Token specific to your application 

 

Step 3 Role Management by Application Owner 

After onboarding  

The Application Owner can log in to One PalC  

Manage application roles, under my application 

Adding new roles  

Modifying existing roles  

Removing roles  

 

The owner is also responsible for handling role-based access approvals  

Shape 

Key Notes 

Only one application owner is supported per application  

Keep the API Token secure and do not expose it in client-side code  

Clearly define role assignment logic to avoid access issues later 

Guide - Implementation at Application End 

Step 1  Redirect user to One PalC Auth URL when authentication is required 

Format for Calling authentication URL   

 

https One PalCHub Auth URL  app_name=YOUR_APP_NAME&redirect_uri=  

t URI) 

After Authentication, One PalCHub will redirect the user to the Application callback URL with a Token, Retrieve the TOKEN 

 

Format of the redirected URL 

 

https YOUR_CALLBACK_URL token=TOKEN 

YOUR_CALLBACK_URL &api_token=API_TOKEN 

 

One PalCHub Auth URL 	 Auth URL shared by IT 

YOUR_APP_NAME		 Application name you shared while onboarding 

YOUR_CALLBACK_URL	 Application Redirect URL you sahred while onboarding 

API_TOKEN			 API token shared by IT 

 

Step 2  Callback Handling (Your Redirec 

Step 3 Validate and Consume the Token  

Validate the token using Public Key shared by the IT team and then use the Token, rettrive Sub which is the user id, Filter roles based on application name. 

 

Token Format  The token is a JWT-like structure containing user identity and roles. 

{ 

  sub balamurali.kumar@palcnetworks.com, 

  name Balamurali Santhakumar, 

  roles { 

    CIS CRMAdmin, 

    DELIVERY MANAGEMENT DMAdmin, 

    WORKPULSE Admin, User 

  }, 

  exp 1757484858 

} 

sub → User’s unique identifier (email). 

name → Full name of the user. 

roles → Application-specific role mappings. 

exp → Token expiry (Unix timestamp). 

 

Step 4  Create Local Application Session based on Token  

Step 5  Consume One PalC User API’s 

API 1  To pull all the user who have access to your application with appropriate roles 

Refer following attached instruction for the same 

ActiveX control 

API 2  Single user details 

Fetch Employees 

Use the API token to fetch employee details. 

Endpoint  

Non Prod    httpsDev_ULRapiusers 

Prod   httpsonepalc.palcnetworks.comworkpulseapiusers 

Parameters 

app_name=application name 

token=apitoken 

 

Fetch Individual User 

To fetch details of a specific user, include the email parameter along with the token. 

 

Step 6  Redirect user to OnePalC Login during Logout 

 

 

Pre build working base code for One Palc integration - PHP 

 

To reduce the time and repeated effort , following PHP based Code base ( BaseApp ) has been developed . this is a skeleton application. On top of which you can build your application. 

 

These Code base (BaseApp) takes care of  

 

Authentication flow , Login , Logout 

Notification Centre 

Different authentication  module 

Lookups module 

Logging mechanism 

Audit mechanism 

User provisioning API integration 

UI template 

Different type of mysql database 

 

Using Claude   Additional Support for development using 

 

Base Claude.md refereeing to Architecture mark down file and UI template mark down file. 

Reference to the API template. 

Predefined Agents for 

Lead Orchestrator 

Frontend 

Backend 

Security Audit 

Testing 

Steps for for using the Base app 

Download the BaseApp Package and AppTemplate Package. 

 

Rename BaseApp package to your new application name, make sure this what is communicated as part of onboarding 

 

Change .env file inside the BaseApp folder to point to your DB. The .env may not be visible. Use console to edit. 

 

Create DB and import the SQL file BaseApp.sql which is there in the BaseApp folder 

mysql -u user -p DB_NAME  BaseApp.sql 

 

Make sure PHP is installed and running . 

 

Run the application by pointing to public folder ex 

 

php -S localhost8007 -t public 
